---
layout: post
title:  "Focus Group Interview about Designing a Drawing Helper for Hobbyists"
date:   2023-05-11 00:00:00 +0900
---

*Team project*
## INTRODUCTION
Drawing is a creative and fulfilling hobby that allows individuals to express themselves and bring their ideas to life. However, it can be a challenging skill to master, and many hobbyists struggle to draw the images they envision in their minds. One of the biggest obstacles they face is finding helpful references to guide their artistic endeavors. This often involves extensive searching, which can be time-consuming and lead to frustration when the desired resources cannot be found.
To address these issues, we propose the design of a drawing helper that can provide inspiration and assistance to hobbyists during their creative process. Our goal is to explore the experiences that hobbyists face both online and offline, to develop design implications that can seamlessly integrate with their workflow. Our design implications are directed toward embedding automatic functionalities that make it easier for users to access the resources, while also providing an enjoyable and engaging experience.
Through our focus group research, we aim to identify the key points and challenges that users have been through when trying to improve their drawing skills. Our goal is to suggest a drawing helper that is not only effective in helping hobbyists unlock their full artistic potential but also user-centered.
To achieve this, our design implication focuses on user experiences that can collaborate with AI in creative works. We believe that our project will not only benefit hobbyists but also contribute to the field of human-AI interaction by exploring new possibilities for creative collaboration.
## METHOD
### Why Focus Group Interview
We need to explore general attitude, desires, and various personal experiences about drawing. We look forward to empathy for difficulties that induce more enthusiastic and vivid experiences to be shared through the focus group. There are many drawing communities, but it is difficult to find a community about the drawing experience itself. So even though they draw often, they don't have many opportunities to think deeply about the experience itself. We hope to derive meaningful insights from the nature of focus group interviews, where people have the opportunity to think more deeply while sharing and empathizing with each other's experiences. 
### Target Group
Our target group is drawing hobbyists who are not educated in professional art schools but have interest in drawing in common. We are not bound to the specific condition of participants. In our recruitment, we said three conditions,  (a)someone who draws something in a 2-d way(paper, canvas, devices etc) constantly, (b)someone who searches for inspirations/references online and offline, and (c)whatever short-term or long-term hobbyist. We finally recruited 5 drawing hobbyists. 

### Topics and Questions
[FIG. 1]
The questions have been constructed based on the offline and online experience of drawing, and how the hobbyists find motivation, inspirations and references. The last two concepts have a specific meaning our participants: the former refers to the non-tangible action of seeking something offline that can be helpful for the user to start drawing (e.g landscape, songs, book’s quotes, etc); the latter refers to the touchable action of intentionally searching for something online that could help or even be used during the drawing process (e.g colors, prospective, images to redraw, specific artistic style, etc).
The discussed topics were “Motivation of starting drawing”, “Usage of Inspirations/References” and “Pros and cons of finding references in a specific way”. The linked questions could be related to other topics too, as it is shown on the Table above [FIG.1]. During the interview the participants responded to each question in turns, sometimes commenting about the other’s point of view or experiences.
The way the FGI has been conducted, also thanks to the participants, allowed us to find interesting insights that could help them for better working in the future.
### Process of Focus Group Interview
The interview session was conducted in an offline meeting room within 60-minutes. The role of our team members: moderator(Heejae Bae) and assistant moderator(Minsun Kim) are inside the room, and observer/notetaker(Giyun Lee, Ilaria Carrozza) are outside the room. The observer/notetaker can hear all sessions through the google meet. We constantly checked the answers of participants through a shared spreadsheet which satisfied the answers for the questionnaire. 
Our interview had four stages to follow. 
#### 2.2.1 Stage 1: Inform and Introduce about focus group interview
We first informed the consent form which they have already submitted. After that, we were informed that whole interviews are voice recorded and we need to take a picture of interviewees, but we will not use them recognizable. We briefly share our topics, goals, and meaning of the focus group but not bother about their free discussion. 
#### 2.2.2 Stage 2: Icebreaking
The moderator started the introduction and each of the participants introduced themselves. Before this interview, we’ve asked to bring the participants’ own drawing image which they want to share because it is hard to self-introduce without any preparings. Each participant shared their own drawing with a short description to other participants. It makes participants briefly understand the drawing styles of the others.
#### 2.2.3 Stage 3: Topics and Questions
Our interview was highly recommended between participant’s debating and discussions. To do that, our moderator was not just asking questions but joined and emphasized with them for more active and comfortable conversation. Also, the moderator asked many following questions related to the answers to understand why.
#### 2.2.4 Stage 4: Reflection
The moderator asked for final reflections by each participant. We could get further information about some participants who couldn’t talk about themselves during the session. Also, it is good to ensure this interview is the proper way to understand the habits of drawing hobbyists.
Analysis
Our goal is to find new insights and design implications through the quotes from the focus group. First, our interview is conducted in Korean, so we have to properly translate them into English; we also have to translate the intention. Each of our team members read the raw data of the interview and picked out the topics and interesting points. After organizing within the spreadsheet, we share the common insights between us and also try to understand differences between our minds. We’ve got three different themes of quotes: motivation, inspiration, and references. Those are not critically divided in common, we consulted together for the insight classification. We made the very rough drawing journey and put quotes on the proper locations. Finally, we group out the quotes which were giving the similar and related insights.

##RESULTS
### Motivation to Start Drawing
#### 3.1.1 Context/narrative creates an emotional trigger
The emotional motivations described by the participants had a common in that they included not just a specific moment or scene, but also the context and background surrounding it. P3 mentioned "I love watching music videos, each includes the music and the story that go with the video. It's not just about the visual, but also that moment when everything fits together perfectly. That inspires me to draw." Similarly, P2 said, "I draw because I don't want to forget my memories or feelings. One summer a couple of years ago, I went to the beach three times and I drew it while remembering the feeling of entering the sea at that time." In these cases, the context serves as both the motivation and inspiration, and the records of memories (such as memo, photography, or video) becomes a reference.
#### 3.1.2 Seeing others' drawing experiences stimulates performance
P3 mentioned that sharing drawing experience with other participants stimulated P3 to draw harder and to get better. Similarly, P4 mentioned "There is one point that made me want to draw. When I was sketching a lot, I watched a YouTube channel called 'LeeYeon' and I could see the process of drawing with her content, so I feel like I have a guide. So when I see a picture with only the result, I think about  'How on earth did she draw this?’ ”.
Sharing the process, not just the result, proved to be a powerful motivator.
The Moments of Inspirations
#### 3.2.1 Inspirational artwork does not lead directly to drawing
Participants mentioned a variety of inspiration sources, including literature, nature, meaningful places, and past memories. In the case of inspirational artwork, not all participants used it directly as a source of their paintings, but they rather see it as a "storage" for future usage. P4 mentioned "When I find an artwork that I like on Instagram, it seems like I’m storing it away in a personal warehouse that I can access and utilize at a later time.”
All participants were very generous about the act of saving inspirational artwork. P3 mentioned "When I want to draw, I tend not to use Pinterest. I was just thinking about the reason why." P1 also mentioned ‘saving’: "I think it's a cycle of saving and deleting."
#### 3.2.2 Linkage to other inspirational artwork
Participants used inspirational artwork as a link to other inspirational artwork. Most participants used a platform directly connected to the artwork and the publisher, such as Instagram, as their digging tool, instead of a platform where the publisher is ‘hidden’, such as Pinterest. P4 mentioned "I mean, if I like a specific artwork, I want to see the other artwork of this artist." P4 also mentioned "I’m always curious about other artists that my favorite artist is following. So I keep digging and digging. The artwork I discover through this process is precious to me." P2 noted that this exploratory process also influences her drawing style. "I think my drawing style is becoming more like the style of the people I keep looking at, the people I follow." 
### Finding References
#### 3.3.1 When they are seeking references and what kinds of references they needed
The main purpose of finding references is divided into two: to improve the drawing skills and to improve the quality of drawings. In their quest to enhance their drawing skills, participants seek out drawing manuals, videos on YouTube, books, and content from professional artists. If participants don’t have enough information about the specific contents in their drawings, they find reference images to draw better and more realistic. P5 said “... if I try to find a more (historically)verified part with it, I have to look for a book or refer to a drama that is well archived.” Besides, they all said the quality of reference images should not be too professional and well done. It makes them discouraging and also lacks the elements to use as a reference. 
#### 3.3.2 Importance of Copyright and Source Attribution
When participants search through Pinterest or Google image, they see a bunch of images. It can be difficult to determine the copyright and original source of an image, leading to a sense of disconnect. P4 commented that "When I see something on Pinterest and I like the style then I want to see more of the artist's work. But it's not actually the artist's work(not actual link or not uploaded artists themself), it's just images floating around the internet, so I feel there's a lot of disconnection." Thus, proper attribution of the source and copyright of reference materials is crucial to participants in their search for appropriate and meaningful references.

## DISCUSSIONS AND DESIGN IMPLICATIONS
### Pitch In With Dynamic Motives
If the participants want to draw such a specific moment in everyday life, there is a context that inspired and motivated them to draw. When our participants experience several contents, they are not simply deceived by meaningless, fancy, technical things. They focused on the intention, stories and narratives. Motivation of the drawing goes the same way. 
Therefore, we suggest that the potential approach for the drawing helper to motivate hobbyists to draw is by incorporating attractive narratives into its contents. One way that the drawing helper can assist hobbyists to get motivation is by assisting them in collecting attractive stories without being constrained by format. This feature can leverage the advancements in AI, such as GPT, to creatively produce immersive narratives based on the user’s input. Thus, our drawing helper can generate attractive narratives by collecting the inspirations of the hobbyists. This can be the new inspiration source for the hobbyists which contains both their taste and narratives.
### Making People Captivated
Drawing hobbyists deeply care about the source to understand the own concept, style and story of the copyright holder. Participants said ‘digging’ is part of their drawing. They dig the various platforms and hunt for their favorite things. Their storage is filled and gradually updated as to their own taste. These kinds of progress makes more ‘fan mind’ of the contents.
However, it is still difficult to fully engage motivation by just giving archival contents to them, even if they have a fan mind. Therefore, we suggest making people feel the bonding between humans and the drawing helper. According to the factors that we mentioned above, chatbot can be one of the proper approaches as a co-drawing agent by bringing neglected contents out from their storage. This can be a captivated zone which meets with the drawing helper who acts as a colleague with the same taste.
### Suggest References based on Skill Level
Participants need a helper for following their personal drawing history based on their skill level. It is not enough to give tons of images for inspiration. As the skill of drawing improves, participants said their needs differ. When they start drawing as a hobbyist, they have more desire to draw better, however, when they reach the ceiling of their skill, then they are more focused on themselves and their own styles. 
We suggest that a drawing helper should focus on providing images tailored to individual abilities. Recently, images can be generated by text inputs using AI image generators such as DALL-E and Midjourney. Here, drawing hobbyists can get information about what they exactly need through prompts like ‘16 century women dress’ or ‘watching face under the desk’. It is a good way to give a controller which is a text-based prompt, to the people who want reference images. However, to make people express their styles on the drawings, participants of the focus group said they do not want really exceptional drawings but have missing points in the drawing to give room to add their own things. This also can be made by AI image generators, because it can understand the prompt about drawing skills.

## CONCLUSION
In summary, the Focus Group Interview provided us with valuable insights into the popular hobby of drawing, which requires a combination of creativity and practice. Through this process, we were able to identify the most important priorities for users in this field, which will be essential for designing effective tools that meet their needs.
One key finding of our research was the importance of providing users with narrative based references and inspirations, both online and offline. Many of our participants expressed frustration with the limitations of existing online drawing searchers, which can be clunky, difficult to archive, and without copyrights.
Based on these insights, we propose to design a drawing helper that takes into account the incorporating of attractive narratives into its contents, provokes fan mind of the users by providing curated references, and suggests personalized contents based on their skill level. By designing a new drawing helper through these implications, it will be helpful for users to fully focus on the creative process and achieve better results.
In conclusion, we believe that our research has identified important insights into the needs and preferences of drawing hobbyists, and that the development of a drawing helper that incorporates these insights could have significant benefits. Moreover, we see enormous potential for the integration of AI into the creative process, and we believe that further research in this area could help unlock the full potential of human-AI interaction linked to the art community.
## REFLECTIONS
### Conducting the Focus Group
The consent process given to both online and offline for the focus group was effectively executed with careful attention. According to the consent, we also care about the appropriate seating arrangements. However, there were technical difficulties with the video streaming, which made it difficult for members outside the venue to differentiate between participants' voices. Additionally, while the overarching questions were well-structured, the detailed questions aimed at eliciting deeper answers were lacking. This placed a significant burden on the moderator to generate them during the interview.
### During the Focus Group Interview
During the focus group interview, ice-breaking activities through their own drawing, which is related to the research, proved useful in encouraging participants to start sharing their experiences. Displaying the topic of discussion on the screen helped participants stay on track, and rehearsing the questions beforehand promoted a natural flow of conversation. However, it was observed that some participants did not contribute as much as others, indicating a need for a method that could encourage more balanced participation. Moreover, selecting a library as the venue posed challenges as it restricted the consumption of beverages other than water. Instead of providing snacks or drinks, reward them with an additional participation fee.
### Interpreting the Data
Interpreting the data from the focus group interview was challenging, particularly in connecting participants' common interpretations with design implications. Analyzing the data involved studying the original files to gain an understanding of the participants' context. However, to identify common keywords or insights, it was also necessary to classify them individually too. Moreover, translating and interpreting the interview from Korean to English could cause contextual changes, so we carefully convert each quote with the adjective with the context.
